Add Mirror an image to an external registry doc (#9)
openshift/ci-docs: content/docs/how-tos/mirroring-to-quay.md

---
title: "Mirror an image to an external registry"
date: 2020-10-05T11:14:39-04:00
draft: false
---

## Requirements

> In order to mirror an image to quay, that image must be have a [promotion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to mirror an image built by CI to Quay, that image must be [promoted
```

configuration.](/docs/architecture/ci-operator/#publishing-container-images)

If the image is promoted into a namespace for which no other image mirroring is set up yet, some RBAC needs to
be configured:

* In [roles.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/core-services/various_rbac/admin_ci-operator_roles.yaml),

>   add role `image-tagger` and rolebinding `image-tagger-ci-operator` for your namespace.

Reviewer: Can you inline an example YAML here for people to copy?

* The admin of the namespace should allow the SA in the mirroring job defined below to access the images with `oc image mirror`,
	e.g.,

>   [admin_openshift-kni_list.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/core-services/image-mirroring/admin_openshift-kni_list.yaml)

Reviewer: Is this the right link? I don't see anything bound to a ServiceAccount here

  which makes the images open to the public.

> ## Configuring mirroring for new images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Mirroring for New Images
```

> Simply submit a PR adding the image to the appropriate mapping file. You will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit a PR adding the image to the appropriate mapping file. You will
```

need an approval of an owner of the image set. Each folder in the [image mirroring

> config](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services/image-mirroring) is an image set.

Reviewer: This section isn't very clear - what is a "new image" and how is it different from a "new set"? The terminology is not ubiquitous - I would suggest something like:

```
## Mirroring Images

Periodically, `oc image mirror` is used to push a configured set of images to Quay repositories. A number of Quay repositories already have mirroring pipelines configured; each directory [here](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services/image-mirroring) corresponds to a repository. These directories contain mapping files that define tags on images in the target repository. New images may be submitted to mirror to existing repositories, or new ones.

### Existing Repositories

Submit a pull request adding the image source and target to the appropriate mirroring file. For instance, adding a new image tag to the `quay.io/openshift:4.6` image would require a new entry in the [`core-services/image-mirroring/openshift/mapping_origin_4_6`](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services/image-mirroring/openshift/mapping_origin_4_6) file. Adding a new image entirely would require a new `mapping_origin_*` file.

### New Repositories

...
```

> ## Configuring mirroring for new sets of images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Mirroring for New Sets of Images
```

Author: Should probably add a check that all headings are in title case

Submit a PR adding a new subdirectory
[here](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services/image-mirroring), with at least a single mapping file
and an `OWNERS` file (so that you can maintain your mappings). The mapping files
should follow the `mapping_$name$anything` naming convention to avoid conflicts
when put to a `ConfigMap`. Submit a PR which contains the new mappings, and after merging,
we can expect to see them via

{{< highlight bash >}}

> > oc get cm -n ci image-mirror-mappings -o yaml | yq -r '.data | keys[]'

Reviewer: nit: use `extract` and always long-form flags in documentation

```
$ oc --context api.ci --namespace ci extract configmap/image-mirror-mappings
```

Also -- do we expect users to be doing this? If no, let's omit

{{< /highlight >}}

Additionally, you will need to add a new Periodic job
[here](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/jobs/infra-image-mirroring.yaml). You can use
any of the jobs as sample and simply replace all occurences of the value found in the `ci.openshift.io/area` label

> (e.G. `knative`) with the name of your set (which should be the same as the name of the directory you created).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g. `knative`) with the name of your set (which should be the same as the name of the directory you created).
```

In oder to push images to an external  repository, credentials are needed. Use `docker` or `podman` to create a docker config

> file as described [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#log-in-to-docker)

Reviewer: Can we tell them to contact the help-desk on #forum-testplatform ?
